GoPay: improve logging of failed payment creation + add docs (#4053)
shopsys/shopsys: docs/integration/payment-gateways.md

    - `createTransaction()`: Creates a new payment transaction
    - `updateTransaction()`: Updates the status of an existing transaction
    - `refundTransaction()`: Processes refunds for a transaction
- see [`PaymentServiceInterface`]({{github.link}}/packages/framework/src/Model/Payment/Service/PaymentServiceInterface.php)

#### Payment Service Facade

- Coordinates operations across different payment types
- Routes payment operations to the appropriate payment service implementation
- See [`PaymentServiceFacade`]({{github.link}}/packages/framework/src/Model/Payment/Service/PaymentServiceFacade.php)

#### Transaction Handling

- The system includes robust transaction handling capabilities
- Supports creating, updating, and refunding transactions
- See [`PaymentTransaction`]({{github.link}}/packages/framework/src/Model/Payment/Transaction/PaymentTransaction.php) and related classes in the `Shopsys\FrameworkBundle\Model\Payment\Transaction` namespace

## Supported Payment Types

Shopsys currently supports the following payment types (defined by the [`PaymentTypeEnum`]({{github.link}}/packages/framework/src/Model/Payment/PaymentTypeEnum.php)):

#### Basic Payment Type

> - Simple payment methods like cash on delivery, bank transfer, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Simple payment methods include cash on delivery, bank transfer, and others
```

- Does not require integration with external payment processors

#### GoPay Payment Type

- Online payments processed through the GoPay service

> - Supports various payment methods including credit cards and bank transfers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Supports various payment methods, including credit cards and bank transfers
```

- Manages configuration for different domains
- Supports both production and test environments
- See [`GoPayClientFactory`]({{github.link}}/packages/framework/src/Model/GoPay/GoPayClientFactory.php)

#### Cron Modules

- [`GoPayAvailablePaymentsCronModule`]({{github.link}}/packages/framework/src/Model/GoPay/GoPayAvailablePaymentsCronModule.php): Downloads and updates available GoPay payment methods for all domains
- [`OrderGoPayStatusUpdateCronModule`]({{github.link}}/packages/framework/src/Model/GoPay/OrderGoPayStatusUpdateCronModule.php): Updates the status of unpaid GoPay orders from the last 21 days and sends email notifications when an order's payment status changes from unpaid to paid

### Configuring GoPay

To configure GoPay in your Shopsys project, you need to set up the `GOPAY_CONFIG` environment variable.
The variable defines your GoPay merchant ID (goid), your client ID, and client secret.
Moreover, it specifies whether to use the production or test environment, and which domains should have GoPay enabled.
For inspiration, see the configuration in [`.env.test`]({{github.link}}/project-base/app/.env.test) file.

> When your application is using HTTP authentication, you need to set the GoPay servers IPs to the `WHITELIST_IPS` variable in your [`deploy-project.sh`]({{github.link}}/project-base/app/deploy/deploy-project.sh) to enable GoPay to send requests back to your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When your application is using HTTP authentication, you need to set the GoPay servers' IPs to the `WHITELIST_IPS` variable in your [`deploy-project.sh`]({{github.link}}/project-base/app/deploy/deploy-project.sh) to enable GoPay to send requests back to your application.
```

#### Local development and testing

For local development and testing, you can use the GoPay test environment. Set the `GOPAY_CONFIG` environment variable in your `.env.local` file to use the test credentials provided by GoPay. This allows you to simulate payment transactions without affecting real accounts.

> Moreover, GoPay does not allow usage of `localhost` or `127.0.0.1` as a return URL for payment callbacks. Instead, you can use the following local setup:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, GoPay does not allow the usage of `localhost` or `127.0.0.1` as a return URL for payment callbacks. Instead, you can use the following local setup:
```

> - modify your `/etc/hosts` file to include a custom domain, e.g., `app.test`. You will need to use `sudo` to edit this file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- modify your `/etc/hosts` file to include a custom domain, such as `app.test`. You will need to use `sudo` to edit this file.
```

#### Register your implementation

- Extend the [`PaymentServiceFacade`]({{github.link}}/packages/framework/src/Model/Payment/Service/PaymentServiceFacade.php) and configure it to use your implementation for your payment type

#### Configure frontend components

- Implement the necessary frontend components for your payment gateway
- Update the order process to support your payment gateway

## Frontend API Integration

The Shopsys Frontend API provides GraphQL queries and mutations for working with payment methods:

### Queries

#### payments

- Returns a complete list of payment methods with details like name, price, and associated transport methods
- Example: `query { payments { uuid, name, price { priceWithVat } } }`

#### payment

- Returns detailed information about a specific payment method
- Example: `query { payment(uuid: "...") { uuid, name, description } }`

#### orderPayments

- Returns payments available for a given order
- Example: `query { orderPayments(orderUuid: "...") { ... } }`

#### GoPaySwifts

- Returns a list of available banks for GoPay bank transfer payment
- Example: `query { GoPaySwifts(currencyCode: "CZK") { ... } }`

#### orderPaymentPageContent

> - Returns HTML content for order payment page depending on the state of the payment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Returns HTML content for the order payment page depending on the state of the payment
```

- Example: `query { orderPaymentPageContent(orderUuid: "...") { ... } }`

### Mutations

#### PayOrder

- Creates a payment transaction in a payment gateway and returns payment setup data
- Example: `mutation { PayOrder(orderUuid: "...") { ... } }`

#### UpdatePaymentStatus

> - Checks payment status of an order after callback from payment service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Checks the payment status of an order after a callback from the payment service
```
